 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth . 
 Now the earth was formless and empty . Darkness was on the surface of the deep . God 's Spirit was hovering over the surface of the waters . 
 God said , " Let there be light , " and there was light . 
 God saw the light , and saw that it was good . God divided the light from the darkness . 
 God called the light " day , " and the darkness he called " night . " There was evening and there was morning , one day. 
 God said , " Let there be an expanse in the middle of the waters , and let it divide the waters from the waters . " 
 God made the expanse , and divided the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse ; and it was so . 
 God called the expanse " sky . " There was evening and there was morning , a second day. 
 God said , " Let the waters under the sky be gathered together to one place , and let the dry land appear ; " and it was so . 
 God called the dry land " earth , " and the gathering together of the waters he called " seas . " God saw that it was good . 
 God said , " Let the earth put forth grass , herbs yielding seed , and fruit trees bearing fruit after their kind , with its seed in it , on the earth ; " and it was so . 
 The earth brought forth grass , herbs yielding seed after their kind , and trees bearing fruit , with its seed in it , after their kind ; and God saw that it was good . 
 There was evening and there was morning , a third day. 
 God said , " Let there be lights in the expanse of sky to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days and years ; 
 and let them be for lights in the expanse of sky to give light on the earth ; " and it was so . 
 God made the two great lights : the greater light to rule the day , and the lesser light to rule the night . He also made the stars . 
 God set them in the expanse of sky to give light to the earth , 
 and to rule over the day and over the night , and to divide the light from the darkness . God saw that it was good . 
 There was evening and there was morning , a fourth day. 
 God said , " Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures , and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of sky . " 
 God created the large sea creatures , and every living creature that moves , with which the waters swarmed , after their kind , and every winged bird after its kind . God saw that it was good . 
 God blessed them , saying , " Be fruitful , and multiply , and fill the waters in the seas , and let birds multiply on the earth . " 
 There was evening and there was morning , a fifth day. 
 God said , " Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind , livestock , creeping things , and animals of the earth after their kind ; " and it was so . 
 God made the animals of the earth after their kind , and the livestock after their kind , and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind . God saw that it was good . 
 God said , " Let us make man in our image , after our likeness : and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the birds of the sky , and over the livestock , and over all the earth , and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth . " 
 God created man in his own image . In God 's image he created him ; male and female he created them. 
 God blessed them. God said to them , " Be fruitful , multiply , fill the earth , and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea , over the birds of the sky , and over every living thing that moves on the earth . " 
 God said , " Behold , I have given you every herb yielding seed , which is on the surface of all the earth , and every tree , which bears fruit yielding seed . It will be your food . 
 To every animal of the earth , and to every bird of the sky , and to everything that creeps on the earth , in which there is life , I have given every green herb for food ; " and it was so . 
 God saw everything that he had made , and , behold , it was very good . There was evening and there was morning , a sixth day. 
 The heavens and the earth were finished , and all their vast array . 
 On the seventh day God finished his work which he had made ; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made . 
 God blessed the seventh day , and made it holy , because he rested in it from all his work which he had created and made . 
 This is the history of the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created , in the day that Yahweh God made the earth and the heavens . 
 No plant of the field was yet in the earth , and no herb of the field had yet sprung up ; for Yahweh God had not caused it to rain on the earth . There was not a man to till the ground , 
 but a mist went up from the earth , and watered the whole surface of the ground . 
 Yahweh God formed man from the dust of the ground , and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ; and man became a living soul . 
 Yahweh God planted a garden eastward , in Eden , and there he put the man whom he had formed . 
 Out of the ground Yahweh God made every tree to grow that is pleasant to the sight , and good for food ; the tree of life also in the middle of the garden , and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil . 
 A river went out of Eden to water the garden ; and from there it was parted , and became four heads . 
 The name of the first is Pishon : this is the one which flows through the whole land of Havilah , where there is gold ; 
 and the gold of that land is good . There is aromatic resin and the onyx stone . 
 The name of the second river is Gihon : the same river that flows through the whole land of Cush . 
 The name of the third river is Hiddekel : this is the one which flows in front of Assyria . The fourth river is the Euphrates . 
 Yahweh God took the man , and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. 
 Yahweh God commanded the man , saying , " Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat ; 
 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil , you shall not eat of it ; for in the day that you eat of it you will surely die . " 
 Yahweh God said , " It is not good that the man should be alone ; I will make him a helper suitable for him. " 
 Out of the ground Yahweh God formed every animal of the field , and every bird of the sky , and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. Whatever the man called every living creature , that was its name . 
 The man gave names to all livestock , and to the birds of the sky , and to every animal of the field ; but for man there was not found a helper suitable for him. 
 Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man , and he slept ; and he took one of his ribs , and closed up the flesh in its place. 
 He made the rib , which Yahweh God had taken from the man , into a woman , and brought her to the man . 
 The man said , " This is now bone of my bones , and flesh of my flesh . She will be called 'w oman , ' because she was taken out of Man . " 
 Therefore a man will leave his father and his mother , and will join with his wife , and they will be one flesh . 
 They were both naked , the man and his wife , and were not ashamed . 
 Now the serpent was more subtle than any animal of the field which Yahweh God had made . He said to the woman , " Has God really said , 'You shall not eat of any tree of the garden ? ' " 
 The woman said to the serpent , " Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat , 
 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden , God has said , 'You shall not eat of it , neither shall you touch it , lest you die . ' " 
 The serpent said to the woman , " You won 't surely die , 
 for God knows that in the day you eat it , your eyes will be opened , and you will be like God , knowing good and evil . " 
 When the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and that it was a delight to the eyes , and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise , she took of its fruit , and ate ; and she gave some to her husband with her , and he ate . 
 The eyes of both of them were opened , and they knew that they were naked . They sewed fig leaves together , and made themselves aprons . 
 They heard the voice of Yahweh God walking in the garden in the cool of the day , and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden . 
 Yahweh God called to the man , and said to him , " Where are you ? " 
 The man said , " I heard your voice in the garden , and I was afraid , because I was naked ; and I hid myself . " 
 God said , " Who told you that you were naked ? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from ? " 
 The man said , " The woman whom you gave to be with me , she gave me of the tree , and I ate . " 
 Yahweh God said to the woman , " What is this you have done ? " The woman said , " The serpent deceived me , and I ate . " 
 Yahweh God said to the serpent , " Because you have done this , you are cursed above all livestock , and above every animal of the field . On your belly you shall go , and you shall eat dust all the days of your life. 
 I will put enmity between you and the woman , and between your offspring and her offspring . He will bruise your head , and you will bruise his heel . " 
 To the woman he said , " I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth . In pain you will bring forth children . Your desire will be for your husband , and he will rule over you. " 
 To Adam he said , " Because you have listened to your wife 's voice , and have eaten of the tree , of which I commanded you , saying , 'You shall not eat of it , ' cursed is the ground for your sake . In toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. 
 Thorns also and thistles will it bring forth to you ; and you will eat the herb of the field . 
 By the sweat of your face will you eat bread until you return to the ground , for out of it you were taken . For you are dust , and to dust you shall return . " 
 The man called his wife Eve , because she was the mother of all living . 
 Yahweh God made coats of skins for Adam and for his wife , and clothed them. 
 Yahweh God said , " Behold , the man has become like one of us , knowing good and evil . Now , lest he put forth his hand , and also take of the tree of life , and eat , and live forever ... " 
 Therefore Yahweh God sent him forth from the garden of Eden , to till the ground from which he was taken . 
 So he drove out the man ; and he placed Cherubs at the east of the garden of Eden , and the flame of a sword which turned every way , to guard the way to the tree of life. 
 The man knew Eve his wife . She conceived , and gave birth to Cain , and said , " I have gotten a man with Yahweh 's help . " 
 Again she gave birth , to Cain 's brother Abel . Abel was a keeper of sheep , but Cain was a tiller of the ground . 
 As time passed , it happened that Cain brought an offering to Yahweh from the fruit of the ground . 
 Abel also brought some of the firstborn of his flock and of its fat . Yahweh respected Abel and his offering , 
 but he didn 't respect Cain and his offering . Cain was very angry , and the expression on his face fell . 
 Yahweh said to Cain , " Why are you angry ? Why has the expression of your face fallen ? 
 If you do well , will it not be lifted up ? If you don 't do well , sin crouches at the door . Its desire is for you , but you are to rule over it. " 
 Cain said to Abel , his brother , " Let 's go into the field . " It happened when they were in the field , that Cain rose up against Abel , his brother , and killed him. 
 Yahweh said to Cain , " Where is Abel , your brother ? " He said , " I don 't know . Am I my brother 's keeper ? " 
 Yahweh said , " What have you done ? The voice of your brother 's blood cries to me from the ground . 
 Now you are cursed because of the ground , which has opened its mouth to receive your brother 's blood from your hand . 
 From now on , when you till the ground , it won 't yield its strength to you. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth . " 
 Cain said to Yahweh , " My punishment is greater than I can bear . 
 Behold , you have driven me out this day from the surface of the ground . I will be hidden from your face , and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth . It will happen that whoever finds me will kill me. " 
 Yahweh said to him , " Therefore whoever slays Cain , vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold . " Yahweh appointed a sign for Cain , lest any finding him should strike him. 
 Cain went out from Yahweh 's presence , and lived in the land of Nod , east of Eden . 
 Cain knew his wife . She conceived , and gave birth to Enoch . He built a city , and called the name of the city , after the name of his son , Enoch . 
 To Enoch was born Irad . Irad became the father of Mehujael . Mehujael became the father of Methushael . Methushael became the father of Lamech . 
 Lamech took two wives : the name of the one was Adah , and the name of the other Zillah . 
 Adah gave birth to Jabal , who was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock . 
 His brother 's name was Jubal , who was the father of all who handle the harp and pipe . 
 Zillah also gave birth to Tubal Cain , the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron . Tubal Cain 's sister was Naamah . 
 Lamech said to his wives , " Adah and Zillah , hear my voice . You wives of Lamech , listen to my speech , for I have slain a man for wounding me , a young man for bruising me. 
 If Cain will be avenged seven times , truly Lamech seventy-seven times . " 
 Adam knew his wife again. She gave birth to a son , and named him Seth , " for God has appointed me another child instead of Abel , for Cain killed him. " 
 There was also born a son to Seth , and he named him Enosh . Then men began to call on Yahweh 's name . 
 This is the book of the generations of Adam . In the day that God created man , he made him in God 's likeness . 
 He created them male and female , and blessed them , and called their name " Adam , " in the day when they were created . 
 Adam lived one hundred thirty years , and became the father of a son in his own likeness , after his image , and named him Seth . 
 The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years , and he became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years , then he died . 
 Seth lived one hundred five years , and became the father of Enosh . 
 Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years , then he died . 
 Enosh lived ninety years , and became the father of Kenan . 
 Enosh lived after he became the father of Kenan , eight hundred fifteen years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years , then he died . 
 Kenan lived seventy years , and became the father of Mahalalel . 
 Kenan lived after he became the father of Mahalalel eight hundred forty years , and became the father of sons and daughters 
 and all the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years , then he died . 
 Mahalalel lived sixty-five years , and became the father of Jared . 
 Mahalalel lived after he became the father of Jared eight hundred thirty years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years , then he died . 
 Jared lived one hundred sixty-two years , and became the father of Enoch . 
 Jared lived after he became the father of Enoch eight hundred years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years , then he died . 
 Enoch lived sixty-five years , and became the father of Methuselah . 
 Enoch walked with God after he became the father of Methuselah three hundred years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years. 
 Enoch walked with God , and he was not , for God took him. 
 Methuselah lived one hundred eighty - seven years , and became the father of Lamech . 
 Methuselah lived after he became the father of Lamech seven hundred eighty - two years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty - nine years , then he died . 
 Lamech lived one hundred eighty - two years , and became the father of a son , 
 and he named him Noah , saying , " This same will comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands , because of the ground which Yahweh has cursed . " 
 Lamech lived after he became the father of Noah five hundred ninety-five years , and became the father of sons and daughters . 
 All the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years , then he died . 
 Noah was five hundred years old , and Noah became the father of Shem , Ham , and Japheth . 
 It happened , when men began to multiply on the surface of the ground , and daughters were born to them , 
 that God 's sons saw that men 's daughters were beautiful , and they took for themselves wives of all that they chose . 
 Yahweh said , " My Spirit will not strive with man forever , because he also is flesh ; yet will his days be one hundred twenty years. " 
 The Nephilim were in the earth in those days , and also after that , when God 's sons came in to men 's daughters . They bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old , men of renown . 
 Yahweh saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth , and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually . 
 Yahweh was sorry that he had made man on the earth , and it grieved him in his heart . 
 Yahweh said , " I will destroy man whom I have created from the surface of the ground ; man , along with animals , creeping things , and birds of the sky ; for I am sorry that I have made them. " 
 But Noah found favor in Yahweh 's eyes . 
 This is the history of the generations of Noah . Noah was a righteous man , blameless among the people of his time. Noah walked with God . 
 Noah became the father of three sons : Shem , Ham , and Japheth . 
 The earth was corrupt before God , and the earth was filled with violence . 
 God saw the earth , and saw that it was corrupt , for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth . 
 God said to Noah , " The end of all flesh has come before me , for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold , I will destroy them with the earth . 
 Make a ship of gopher wood . You shall make rooms in the ship , and shall seal it inside and outside with pitch . 
 This is how you shall make it. The length of the ship will be three hundred cubits , its breadth fifty cubits , and its height thirty cubits . 
 You shall make a roof in the ship , and you shall finish it to a cubit upward . You shall set the door of the ship in its side . You shall make it with lower , second , and third levels . 
 I , even I , do bring the flood of waters on this earth , to destroy all flesh having the breath of life from under the sky . Everything that is in the earth will die . 
 But I will establish my covenant with you. You shall come into the ship , you , your sons , your wife , and your sons ' wives with you. 
 Of every living thing of all flesh , you shall bring two of every sort into the ship , to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female . 
 Of the birds after their kind , of the livestock after their kind , of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind , two of every sort shall come to you , to keep them alive . 
 Take with you of all food that is eaten , and gather it to yourself ; and it will be for food for you , and for them. " 
 Thus Noah did . According to all that God commanded him , so he did . 
 Yahweh said to Noah , " Come with all of your household into the ship , for I have seen your righteousness before me in this generation . 
 You shall take seven pairs of every clean animal with you , the male and his female . Of the animals that are not clean , take two , the male and his female . 
 Also of the birds of the sky , seven and seven , male and female , to keep seed alive on the surface of all the earth . 
 In seven days , I will cause it to rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights . Every living thing that I have made , I will destroy from the surface of the ground . " 
 Noah did everything that Yahweh commanded him. 
 Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came on the earth . 
 Noah went into the ship with his sons , his wife , and his sons ' wives , because of the waters of the flood . 
 Clean animals , animals that are not clean , birds , and everything that creeps on the ground 
 went by pairs to Noah into the ship , male and female , as God commanded Noah . 
 It happened after the seven days , that the waters of the flood came on the earth . 
 In the six hundredth year of Noah 's life , in the second month , on the seventeenth day of the month , on the same day all the fountains of the great deep were burst open , and the sky 's windows were opened . 
 The rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights . 
 In the same day Noah , and Shem , Ham , and Japheth , the sons of Noah , and Noah 's wife , and the three wives of his sons with them , entered into the ship ; 
 they , and every animal after its kind , all the livestock after their kind , every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind , and every bird after its kind , every bird of every sort . 
 They went to Noah into the ship , by pairs of all flesh with the breath of life in them. 
 Those who went in , went in male and female of all flesh , as God commanded him ; and Yahweh shut him in. 
 The flood was forty days on the earth . The waters increased , and lifted up the ship , and it was lifted up above the earth . 
 The waters prevailed , and increased greatly on the earth ; and the ship floated on the surface of the waters . 
 The waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth . All the high mountains that were under the whole sky were covered . 
 The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward , and the mountains were covered . 
 All flesh died that moved on the earth , including birds , livestock , animals , every creeping thing that creeps on the earth , and every man . 
 All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life , of all that was on the dry land , died . 
 Every living thing was destroyed that was on the surface of the ground , including man , livestock , creeping things , and birds of the sky . They were destroyed from the earth . Only Noah was left , and those who were with him in the ship . 
 The waters prevailed on the earth one hundred fifty days. 
 God remembered Noah , all the animals , and all the livestock that were with him in the ship ; and God made a wind to pass over the earth . The waters subsided . 
 The deep 's fountains and the sky 's windows were also stopped , and the rain from the sky was restrained . 
 The waters receded from the earth continually . After the end of one hundred fifty days the waters decreased . 
 The ship rested in the seventh month , on the seventeenth day of the month , on Ararat 's mountains . 
 The waters receded continually until the tenth month . In the tenth month , on the first day of the month , the tops of the mountains were seen . 
 It happened at the end of forty days , that Noah opened the window of the ship which he had made , 
 and he sent forth a raven . It went back and forth , until the waters were dried up from the earth . 
 He sent forth a dove from him , to see if the waters were abated from the surface of the ground , 
 but the dove found no place to rest her foot , and she returned to him into the ship ; for the waters were on the surface of the whole earth . He put forth his hand , and took her , and brought her to him into the ship . 
 He stayed yet another seven days ; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ship . 
 The dove came back to him at evening , and , behold , in her mouth was an olive leaf plucked off . So Noah knew that the waters were abated from the earth . 
 He stayed yet another seven days , and sent forth the dove ; and she didn 't return to him any more . 
 It happened in the six hundred first year , in the first month , the first day of the month , the waters were dried up from the earth . Noah removed the covering of the ship , and looked . He saw that the surface of the ground was dried . 
 In the second month , on the twenty-seven th day of the month , the earth was dry . 
 God spoke to Noah , saying , 
 " Go out of the ship , you , and your wife , and your sons , and your sons ' wives with you. 
 Bring forth with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh , including birds , livestock , and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth , that they may breed abundantly in the earth , and be fruitful , and multiply on the earth . " 
 Noah went forth , with his sons , his wife , and his sons ' wives with him. 
 Every animal , every creeping thing , and every bird , whatever moves on the earth , after their families , went out of the ship . 
 Noah built an altar to Yahweh , and took of every clean animal , and of every clean bird , and offered burnt offerings on the altar . 
 Yahweh smelled the pleasant aroma . Yahweh said in his heart , " I will not again curse the ground any more for man 's sake , because the imagination of man 's heart is evil from his youth ; neither will I ever again strike everything living , as I have done . 
 While the earth remains , seed time and harvest , and cold and heat , and summer and winter , and day and night shall not cease . " 
 God blessed Noah and his sons , and said to them , " Be fruitful , and multiply , and replenish the earth . 
 The fear of you and the dread of you will be on every animal of the earth , and on every bird of the sky . Everything that the ground teems with , and all the fish of the sea are delivered into your hand . 
 Every moving thing that lives will be food for you. As the green herb , I have given everything to you. 
 But flesh with its life , its blood , you shall not eat . 
 I will surely require your blood of your lives . At the hand of every animal I will require it. At the hand of man , even at the hand of every man 's brother , I will require the life of man . 
 Whoever sheds man 's blood , his blood will be shed by man , for God made man in his own image . 
 Be fruitful and multiply . Bring forth abundantly in the earth , and multiply in it. " 
 God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him , saying , 
 " As for me , behold , I establish my covenant with you , and with your offspring after you , 
 and with every living creature that is with you : the birds , the livestock , and every animal of the earth with you , of all that go out of the ship , even every animal of the earth . 
 I will establish my covenant with you : all flesh will not be cut off any more by the waters of the flood , neither will there ever again be a flood to destroy the earth . " 
 God said , " This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you , for perpetual generations : 
 I set my rainbow in the cloud , and it will be for a sign of a covenant between me and the earth . 
 It will happen , when I bring a cloud over the earth , that the rainbow will be seen in the cloud , 
 and I will remember my covenant , which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh , and the waters will no more become a flood to destroy all flesh . 
 The rainbow will be in the cloud . I will look at it , that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth . " 
 God said to Noah , " This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth . " 
 The sons of Noah who went forth from the ship were Shem , Ham , and Japheth . Ham is the father of Canaan . 
 These three were the sons of Noah , and from these , the whole earth was populated . 
 Noah began to be a farmer , and planted a vineyard . 
 He drank of the wine and got drunk . He was uncovered within his tent . 
 Ham , the father of Canaan , saw the nakedness of his father , and told his two brothers outside . 
 Shem and Japheth took a garment , and laid it on both their shoulders , went in backwards , and covered the nakedness of their father . Their faces were backwards , and they didn 't see their father 's nakedness . 
 Noah awoke from his wine , and knew what his youngest son had done to him. 
 He said , " Canaan is cursed . He will be servant of servants to his brothers . " 
 He said , " Blessed be Yahweh , the God of Shem . Let Canaan be his servant . 
 May God enlarge Japheth . Let him dwell in the tents of Shem . Let Canaan be his servant . " 
 Noah lived three hundred fifty years after the flood . 
 All the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years , then he died . 
 Now this is the history of the generations of the sons of Noah and of Shem , Ham , and Japheth . Sons were born to them after the flood . 
 The sons of Japheth : Gomer , Magog , Madai , Javan , Tubal , Meshech , and Tiras . 
 The sons of Gomer : Ashkenaz , Riphath , and Togarmah . 
 The sons of Javan : Elishah , Tarshish , Kittim , and Dodanim . 
 Of these were the islands of the nations divided in their lands , everyone after his language , after their families , in their nations . 
 The sons of Ham : Cush , Mizraim , Put , and Canaan . 
 The sons of Cush : Seba , Havilah , Sabtah , Raamah , and Sabteca . The sons of Raamah : Sheba and Dedan . 
 Cush became the father of Nimrod . He began to be a mighty one in the earth . 
 He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh . Therefore it is said , " Like Nimrod , a mighty hunter before Yahweh . " 
 The beginning of his kingdom was Babel , Erech , Accad , and Calneh , in the land of Shinar . 
 Out of that land he went forth into Assyria , and built Nineveh , Rehoboth Ir , Calah , 
 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah ( the same is the great city ) . 
 Mizraim became the father of Ludim , Anamim , Lehabim , Naphtuhim , 
 Pathrusim , Casluhim ( which the Philistines descended from ) , and Caphtorim . 
 Canaan became the father of Sidon ( his firstborn ) , Heth , 
 the Jebusite , the Amorite , the Girgashite , 
 the Hivite , the Arkite , the Sinite , 
 the Arvadite , the Zemarite , and the Hamathite . Afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad . 
 The border of the Canaanites was from Sidon , as you go toward Gerar , to Gaza ; as you go toward Sodom , Gomorrah , Admah , and Zeboiim , to Lasha . 
 These are the sons of Ham , after their families , after their languages , in their lands , in their nations . 
 To Shem , the father of all the children of Eber , the elder brother of Japheth , to him also were children born . 
 The sons of Shem : Elam , Asshur , Arpachshad , Lud , and Aram . 
 The sons of Aram : Uz , Hul , Gether , and Mash . 
 Arpachshad became the father of Shelah . Shelah became the father of Eber . 
 To Eber were born two sons . The name of the one was Peleg , for in his days the earth was divided . His brother 's name was Joktan . 
 Joktan became the father of Almodad , Sheleph , Hazarmaveth , Jerah , 
 Hadoram , Uzal , Diklah , 
 Obal , Abimael , Sheba , 
 Ophir , Havilah , and Jobab . All these were the sons of Joktan . 
 Their dwelling was from Mesha , as you go toward Sephar , the mountain of the east . 
 These are the sons of Shem , after their families , after their languages , in their lands , after their nations . 
 These are the families of the sons of Noah , after their generations , in their nations . Of these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood . 
